# text-mining

Please read the [instructions](instructions.md).

I used Reddit as a data source and had to import praw to pull that data. Figuring out what I needed to pull data from reddit (like a client id, secret id, and user agent) was tougher than expected. There are so many different sources that all have slightly different code and it took me a while to put the pieces together just to get the data. At the start of the project, I wanted to make a word cloud of the most frequent words used in articles/comments of a subreddit, and possibly do a sentiment analysis based off of those words. But as the project went on and unexpected problems were occurring I realized that it would take more time than I had for the sentiment analysis.

For a big part of the project I was trying to figure out the correct syntax needed to not only get the correct data, but to also separate them into words. Luckily, I figured out most of the problems slowly but surely. And the internet helped me a lot as many of the problems were small mistakes that people often make. If I were a more experienced coder I’m sure I would’ve done that section in half the time but since I’m semi-new to this, each line was a journey.

As said before, I’d wanted to make a function that took both the headlines and comments. Yet I ran into a problem where only the output for the first for loop in a function would show. I couldn’t figure out what was causing this problem so I had to make headlines and comments two different functions. Another problem I ran into was the importing of matplotlib. I needed this to create and format the word cloud but I ran into some error messages trying to import it in command prompt and even the internet couldn’t help me.

I wish I could show you a picture of the word plot myself but I couldn’t get the import to work at all. I thought that pulling the most frequent words from the subreddit would give a lot of insights but you really have to dig deep to find much. When you get past the common words, you have to think a little bit too hard to figure out what insights are related to that word. And a lot of them really aren’t as frequently used as I thought so you’d have to scroll to the bottom (or top in my case) of the list for the really insightful words. For tesla investors club subreddit, the top 3 insightful words were FSD, Hertz, and production.  
 
As I write this reflection, I’m running my code again with different subreddits and an unforeseen bug has popped up seemingly out of nowhere. Some attribute error related to the praw import, weird because it worked before. This doesn’t surprise me though, there’s twist and turns all the time when coding. And I feel that visual studio code is a good amount of the time. I could have definitely improved the project if I’d just had more time to complete it. The results I got are admittedly basic and I feel that a sentiment analysis would’ve been a nice touch. I severely underestimated the amount of time it’d take me to do even what I thought was going to be the most basic things. Half my time was spent trying to figure out syntax and how certain methods/functions were used. I’m glad I got to pull data from a real website though and I feel I better have an understanding of real world applications Python can be used for. I’m also glad I get to practice my Python skills with these assignments because at the moment I still think I’m going a little too slow and because of that I’m not living up to my full potential of what my code could be.
